# Face-recognition-and-detection
face detection and recognition using machine learnring
**The algorithm has four stages:**
Haar Feature Selection: All human faces share some similar properties. These regularities may be matched using Haar Features.
Creating an Integral Image: An image representation called the integral image evaluates rectangular features in constant time, which gives them a considerable speed advantage over more sophisticated alternative features
Adaboost Training:  The algorithm learns from the images we supply it and is able to determine the false positives and true negatives in the data, allowing it to be more accurate.
Cascading Classifiers:  The evaluation of the strong classifiers generated by the learning process can be done quickly, but it isn't fast enough to run in real-time. For this reason, the strong classifiers are arranged in a cascade in order of complexity, where each successive classifier is trained only on those selected samples which pass through the preceding classifiers.
**IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT**
By using this code along with proper hardware this can be implemented for various tasks
Real time door opening and closing.
Face recognition based attendance system.
Criminal database matching system.
**CONCLUSION**
The design and development of automatic facial recognition system is developed and validated in real-time. Both PCA and DCT techniques are used for facial recognition and verification. At first, the 
MATLAB code was generated and validated. Next, real-time PC-based and DSP-based prototype systems were designed and developed. 
Finally the algorithms were validated in real-time using different test images.
